The Mercedes Elks Lodge established a small hospital in 1922. In 1928 they replaced it with the larger hospital building in this postcard. There are several potted plants on the steps. The hospital had no air conditioning but open windows and a front porch provided some escapre from the heat. The First Baptist Church can be seen in the rear right of the image. [38],
Mercedes Hospital had 12 private rooms and an open ward. Many of the children of Mercedes were born there. The building featured a red tile roof, soft arches, and white stucco,  typical of Spanish Colonial Revival architecture at that time. In the 1930s,  the Elks Club was no longer able to sustain the hospital. The city took over and renamed it Mercedes General Hospital. It served the town of Mercedes until the 1960s. [66]

Early Mercedes physicians included Dr. Caldera, Dr De La Torre, Dr Edwards, Dr Caballero, and Dr Johnston. Dr Johnston and Dr Caballero owned their own hospital on 3rd street where their clinic still exists today.  Dr. Hector P. Garcia,  physician and activity for whom the local library named, was born in Mercedes. [15] ",
"The Elks Lodge funded and  built the only hospital in Mercedes, pictured here. Due to the economic depression of the 1930s, the Elks were unable to continue their funding, so the city assumed fiscal liability for its operations.  The name changed from the Elks Hospital to Mercedes General Hospital. It prospered for several decades, but closed in the early 1960s when the more modern Knapp Memorial Hospital opened in the neighboring community of Weslaco. The building then served as a nursing home for several years before it was demolished to make way for the high rise senior apartment complex built in the late 1960s. [66]",
"The First Methodist Church of Mercedes built the church on the left and used it until building a new church in the 1960s.  The structure was then  utilized by the El Buen Pastor Iglesia Methodista congregation for many years until they also built a new church. [27]

The Mission Revival style church on the right has not been identified.  Typical of Mission Revival architecture, it features a parapet bell tower, soft arches and additional parapets on both sides.",
I005,SMU,5376,53,Methodist Episcopal Church later became El Buen Pastor Iglesia Methodista,Body and Soul,1930,"The First United Methodist Church of Mercedes, pictured here, was erected in 1936. They utilized the building until the 1960s when the congregation built and moved to a new church several blocks South. The building then served the El Buen Pastor Iglesia Methodista congregation until being demolished in the 1960s when the congregation  built a new church on the same site.[27]",
"The Lutheran church with palms over doors was built in 1911, as per the inscription on the back. The architecture is similar to that of rural German churches in Texas in that period, in particular the box-shaped steeple with a small shingled roof. According to the inscription on the back of the postcard, the structure was moved to San Juan, Texas.[17][59] See card W038 for an arial view of the church.",
"This postcard features the First Presbyterian Church of Mercedes, which was built in 1912 at the corner of Fourth and Missouri Avenue. The church was founded by Evangelist S.M. Glasgow in 1909, who also founded Presbyterian churches in Matamoros, Brownsville, and Harlingen. In accordance with Mercedes building codes, the structure was built of stucco-covered brick. The sanctuary's unusual layout was diagonal.

The local paper in 1914 stated 'Preaching services every Sabbath, except the 3rd. at 11 a.m. and 8 p.m.' Sabbath school 9:45, every Sabbath, Christian Endeavor, 7 p.m. every Sabbath. A hearty welcome awaits you at this services.  That paper also contained notices for the Immanuel Lutheran Church 'near City Park' and  the Ebenezer Evangelic Lutheran Church, 'near the electric light plant.' [60]",
"The First Presbyterian Church building was constructed in 1912. In 1947, the interior was remodeled, and new classrooms and a kitchen were added. The remodeled exterior features a Mission Revival-style parapet, which is common in many early Mercedes structures. Additionally, a pipe organ imported from Germany was installed. The organ was funded by the Mary Stotler Fund, which was named after the organist who had served the church for many years. [48]

The building was demolished  when a new church was built on Texas Avenue in 1972. The organ was reinstalled in the new church building which still stands today in 2023.",
"This First Baptist Church was organized in 1907. This church complex was built in 1920 and included the sanctuary, bell tower, auditorium, classrooms, kitchen and fellowship hall.  The local newspaper described its opening in great detail. 'Mercedes can boast of one of the most magnificent church edifices in this part of the state. The main auditorium has balconies at the front and rear and a seating capacity of 750 people. The interior has art glass windows on all sides. There is a private retiring and rest room for women, another for men and an office for the superintendent of the Sunday School. The bell tower is lighted and there are ornamental electric lights in front...'[44]

The Baptist Church closed during the 1990s. Since then the still standing building has served as a mission church and a preschool.",